- [Instructor] There are a couple of rules
that you must know at this point
in order to apply or use generics in your code.
Let's look at them.
The first rule is that generics works only
with reference types.
This essentially means
that you can never use primitives with generics.
Let's go to the IDE and write some code for this.
So let's create another class here
on the same package as the previous one,
and let's name this class as Rules.
In this, I'll write the main method.
And now, let's create a list of ints,
and this would be primitive ints,
so List, that is java.util, the angle brackets,
and this time, the type argument is the primitive int.
Let's name this variable as integers,
and let's create new ArrayList.
Similarly, let's also label the type argument as int here,
but since now, we have the diamond operator,
there is no need to do that, so we can eliminate this.
Now, if you see,
you have compilishing problem on this line,
and it says that the type argument
cannot be of primitive type.
So this is what it is, when you use generics,
you will never be able to use primitives,
you only have to use reference types.
So, this code now can be changed
to the integer wrapper type that we have in Java.
Now, let's come on the next line
and say integers.add, let me add a number, 10.
And then, on the next line,
let me take a primitive int variable, int number
and retrieve the value at the zeroth index of that list,
so I'll say integers.get zero.
So, a minute ago,
we said that generics does not work with primitives,
but then, what happened on lines number nine and 10?
I directly added the number 10
into the list on line number nine,
and on line number 10,
I retrieved the value from the list
into a primitive variable.
So, how is this working?
This is because the autoboxing
and unboxing feature in Java is in action.
On line number nine, autoboxing is in action,
which means the primitive number 10 will be wrapped
inside an integer-type object,
and then that object will be inserted into the collection.
On line number 10,
when we try to retrieve the value at the zeroth index,
it actually fetched an integer object,
but then, it unwrapped the primitive from that object
and made it available to us.
So, autoboxing and boxing is how you're going to deal
with the generic objects in case of primitives.
The second rule is generic types differ
based on their type arguments.
This means that if you have two references created
by passing different type arguments
to the same generic type, they will not be the same.
Now, this may be a little confusing to understand,
so let's go to the IDE, write some code,
and understand this quickly.
Let's say, in addition to the list of integers
that we have created on line number eight,
let's create a list of String as well, like that,
and let's call this languages
and instantiate this to an ArrayList object,
and we'll use that diamond operator again.
Let's add some values.
And now, we have two references.
One reference is integers on line number eight.
This reference variable was created
by invoking the list generic type,
and the type argument passed was the integer wrapper type.
On line number 12, we created another reference, languages,
and this was a list of String.
So, we passed the String argument type
to the list generic type in order to get that variable.
Now, the reference integers
and the reference languages
on line number 12 are not the same,
even if they are born out of the same generic type,
they are still different references.
So, if I try to do something like this,
integers equal to languages,
this will not work.
It tells me that the required type is list of Integer,
and you're providing list of String.
So, this is the rule,
if you have two different references
that were create with different type arguments,
but you invoke the same generic type, that does not mean
that those references can be equated with each other,
that's the rule.
Further to this, let's also see
the naming conventions for type parameters.
In most of our previous videos,
we're already seen E as the parameter name
on the list generic type.
We have seen K and V as type parameters
on the Map interface.
So, as we said earlier,
there is a convention that Oracle as laid out
for naming your type parameters,
and this is what we're talking about now.
The first one is the alphabet E.
So, this can be used for elements,
and this is specifically used in all the collection classes.
If you want to design your own collection framework,
you can use E as the name of your type parameter.
Next is for K and V, key and value.
So, if you're designing a class
or let's say an API like the Map,
then you should use K and V
to designate keys and values
for your type parameter names.
N is used for numbers.
So, if you have a generic class
that deals entirely with numbers,
then you can use N as the name if your type parameter.
Next one is T.
So, if you're designing your own generic class,
you can always use T.
T can refer to any type in Java.
Lastly, S, U and V.
If you have a scenario
for multiparameters in your generic types,
then the second, third and fourth type parameters are
named S, U and V, respectively.
This naming convention that you see is
very different from what Java usually recommends.
Java recommends that you give elaborate names
for your variable, methods, etc.,
but this kind of a naming convention was designed
or laid down to differentiate your type parameters
from the rest of your Java code.
At the end of the day, this is just a convention.
If you choose to follow your own standard,
you can always go ahead.